HED version: v1.6.14-reduced

'''Syntax'''  

HED tags can only be separated by commas. Use semicolons (;) instead of commas in event descriptions since otherwise extra commas could confuse HED parsers.  Do not use single or double quotes in HED tags.
From version 2.2, HED adheres to http://semver.org/ versioning. 

HED 3 introduces the notion of the scope of an event. Events are assumed to occur at a single point in time unless they have an explicit scope. Events with a scope have a starting point and an ending point. Tools treat tags associated with scoped events as being applicable during the entire scope of that event and will automatically apply those tags to every event within the scope during analysis.  

There are four ways to define the scope of an event.  The most common method is to specify the start and end of the scope using Onset and Offset. An event tagged with Attribute/Temporal/Onset is assumed to have a scope that starts at the time associated with the Onset event and ends at the end of the dataset. To explicitly specify both the start and end of a scope gtoup the Attribute/Temporal/Onset with an Attribute/Informational/Label/# tag to identify  and mark the start of the scope along with all of the other tags associated with the scope. Use the Attribute/Temporal/Offset with the same Attribute/Informational/Label/# to indicate the end of that scope. Once a scope has been identified, additional occurences of that scope can be marked with labeled onset-offset pairs without repeating the additional tags associated with the scope. Finally, tags grouped with the Attribute/Temporal/Duration/# tag define a scope that starts at that point and ends  duration time later. One can also combine the /Attribute/Informational/Definition  and the Attribute/Informational/Label/#  with a group of tags. That label tag can then be used anywhere to represent the associated group of tags, much like an event code.

!# start hed 

'''Event''' 
* Sensory-event<nowiki> [Something perceivable by the participant. An event meant to be an experimental stimulus should also be tagged with Attribute/Contextual/Task-related. Other events may be tagged with Attribute/Contextual/Non task-related.]</nowiki>
* Agent-action <nowiki>[Any action engaged in by an agent. An event which is a participant response to an experimental stimulus should also be tagged with Attribute/Task-related and Attribute/Role/Experimental subject.]</nowiki>
* Data-feature <nowiki>[An event derived from the data itself, possibly inserted in a post-hoc fashion, for example an interictal spike or alpha burst.]</nowiki>
* Experiment-control <nowiki>{extensionAllowed} [An event pertaining to the control of the experiment during its operation.]</nowiki>
** Instruction <nowiki>[Experimenter (or experimental control application) gives an instruction to the participant.]</nowiki>
** Pause <nowiki>[An event indicating a stop in recording. Use (Attribute/Temporal/Onset, Attribute/Temporal/Duration) or Attribute/Temporal/Onset and, in another Event, Attribute/Temporal/Offset to specify the length of the pause.]</nowiki>    
** Timesync <nowiki>[A marker value or pattern inserted into the recorded data to allow post hoc synchronization of concurrently recorded data streams.]</nowiki>
** Procedure <nowiki>[An event marking the Onset or Offset of an experimental procedure, for example doing a saliva swab on the person, during the experiment. Use Attribute/Temporal/Onset and, in another Event, Attribute/Temporal/Offset to specify the start and end of the procedure. Use Attribute/ID/#]</nowiki>  
** Mishap <nowiki> [Unplanned disruptive event such as an equipment or experiment control abnormality or experimenter error.]</nowiki>
* Experiment-structure <nowiki>{extensionAllowed} [An event specifying the structure of the experiment.]</nowiki>







'''Item''' <nowiki>{extensionAllowed}</nowiki>
* Object <nowiki> {extensionAllowed} [Physical object perceptible via Visual, Auditory, Olfactory, and/or Tactile modalities]</nowiki>
** Geometric
*** Pattern
**** Dots
**** Led-pattern
*** 2D-shape
**** Cross
**** Ellipse
***** Circle
**** Rectangle
***** Square
**** Single-point
**** Star
**** Triangle
*** 3D-shape
**** Box
***** Cube
**** Cone
**** Cylinder
**** Ellipsoid
***** Sphere
**** Pyradmid
** Man-made <nowiki>[A manmade object]</nowiki>
*** Visualization <nowiki>[A representation of something else -- such as using a stick-figure to represent motion capture data. This also encompasses different modalities such as representing a texture by the pitch of an audio tone.]</nowiki>
**** Animation
**** Art-installation
**** Aerial-view
**** Braille
**** Cutout
**** Image <nowiki>[A still 2-D representation.]</nowiki>
***** Cartoon
***** Drawing
***** Painting
***** Photograph
**** Point-light-visualization
**** Movie
**** Outline-visualization
**** Satellite-view
**** Sculpture
**** Sound-clip
**** Stick-figure-visualization
**** Street-view

*** Building <nowiki>[Whole building or building feature]</nowiki>
**** Room
**** Roof
**** Entrance
**** Attic
**** Basement
*** Clothing
*** Device
**** Computing-device
**** Engine
**** IO-device
***** Input-device
****** Button
****** Joystick
****** Keyboard
****** Keypad
****** Microphone
****** Mouse
****** Touch-screen
***** Network-device
***** Output-device
****** Display
******* Head-mounted-display
******* LED-display
******* Screen 
****** Auditory-device
******* Headphones
******* Screen-speaker
******* Loudspeaker
***** Recording-device
****** EEG-recording
****** File-recording
****** MEG-recording
****** Motion-capture
****** Tape-recording
**** Machine
***** Noisemaker
**** Measurement-device
***** Clock
****** Clock-face
**** Robot
**** Tool
***	Document <nowiki>[A physical, written document]</nowiki>
**** Manuscript
**** Letter
**** Note
**** Book
**** Notebook
*** Furnishing <nowiki>[Furniture and appliances and other movable accessories including curtains and rugs]</nowiki>
*** Navigational object
**** Path
**** Road
**** Runway
**** Sign
*** Vehicle
**** Aircraft 
**** Bicycle
**** Boat 
**** Car
**** Cart
**** Tractor
**** Train 
**** Truck 
** Natural
*** Animal
*** Human
**** Head
***** Hair
***** Ear
***** Face
****** Cheek
****** Chin
****** Eye
****** Eyebrow
****** Forehead
****** Lip
****** Nose
****** Mouth
**** Body
***** Hand
****** Finger
******* Index-finger
******* Little-finger
******* Middle-finger
******* Ring-finger
******* Thumb-finger
***** Foot
****** Toe
***** Torso
***** Leg
***** Arm
*** Plant
*** Mineral
*** Natural-feature
**** Field
**** Hill
**** Mountain
**** River
**** Waterfall
** Food
** Drink

* Language <nowiki>[Perceivable in a visual or auditory (spoken) sensory presentation]</nowiki>
** Character
** Glyph
** Nonword
** Phoneme
** Phrase
** Sentence
** Syllable
** Textblock
** Word
* Sound <nowiki>[Item/Sound can be used in a tag group to describe, for example, sound created by an action (e.g. Item/Sound, Action/Move/Move leg-foot/Walk, Agent/Human) or an object (e.g. Item/Sound, Item/Object/Man-made/Vehicle/Car]</nowiki>
** Environmental-sound<nowiki>[A background sound from the surrounding environment.]</nowiki>
*** Crowd sound <nowiki>[Multiple speech streams at once]</nowiki>
*** Noise
**** White-noise
**** Colored-noise
** Musical-sound <nowiki>[Any tone or combination of tones with characteristics such as controlled pitch and timbre that can be controlled by an agent.]</nowiki>
*** Tone
*** Instrument-sound
*** Vocalized-sound
** Named-animal-sound
*** Bark
*** Bleat
*** Crow
*** Chirp
*** Growl
*** Meow
*** Moo
*** Purr
*** Roar

** Named-object-sound
*** Alarm
*** Buzz
*** Ka-ching <nowiki>[Cash register sound]</nowiki>
*** Click
*** Ding
*** Horn
*** Siren

'''Action'''<nowiki> {extensionAllowed} [May or may not be in response to a previous Sensory presentation event.]</nowiki> 
* Move
** Breathe
*** Inhale <nowiki>[A deliberate inbreath, e.g. in response to a task instruction. If incidental, group it with Attribute/Cognitive modifier/Incidental. E.g. (Action/Move/Breathe/Inhale, Attribute/Cognitive modifier/Incidental).]</nowiki>
*** Exhale <nowiki>[A deliberate outbreath, e.g. in response to a task instruction. If incidental, group it with Attribute/Cognitive modifier/Incidental. E.g. (Action/Move/Breathe/Exhale, Attribute/Cognitive modifier/Incidental).]</nowiki>
*** Hold-breath
** Move-full-body
*** Bend
*** Dance
*** Fall-down<nowiki>[Involuntary fall to floor or ground]</nowiki>
*** Flex
*** Jerk <nowiki>[When some force applied to the participant causes them to involuntarily accommodate or react to it.]</nowiki>
***	Recover-balance <nowiki>[A movement made in response to a stumble or unforeseen loss of balance]</nowiki>
*** Stretch <nowiki>[Stretching the body or body part]</nowiki> 
*** Shudder 
*** Stumble <nowiki>[Temporary and involuntary loss of balance]</nowiki>
*** Turn
** Move-head
*** Move-eyes
**** Blink
**** Close-eyes
**** Fixate
**** Inhibit-blinks
**** Open-eyes 
**** Saccade
*** Move-mouth
**** Burp 
**** Clear-throat
**** Cough 
**** Gurgle
**** Hiccup 
**** Smile
**** Sneeze 
**** Sniffle
**** Swallow
**** Yawn 
*** Nod
** Move-arm-hand
*** Clap
*** Drop <nowiki>[For example the participant drops a handheld ball]</nowiki>
*** Grab
*** Grasp <nowiki>[Grasp an object in one or both hands]</nowiki>
*** Hold-down
*** Lift <nowiki>[Often grouped with item being lifted.]</nowiki>
*** Make-fist
*** Point  <nowiki>[Should be grouped with Item/Agent/Human/Body part/Hand/Finger tag to specify which finger was used for the action.]</nowiki> 
*** Press <nowiki>[Often grouped with body part doing action and item being pressed.]</nowiki>
*** Push
*** Reach <nowiki>[Requires a spatial goal such as reaching to touch a button or to grasp something. A body stretch is not a reach.]</nowiki> 
*** Release <nowiki>[Often grouped with item being released.]</nowiki>
*** Retract <nowiki>[Often grouped with body part doing action and item being retracted.]</nowiki>
*** Scratch
*** Snap-fingers
*** Tap <nowiki>[Often grouped with body part doing action.]</nowiki>
*** Touch <nowiki>[May follow a Reach event]</nowiki> 
** Move-leg-foot
*** Curl-toes
*** Jog
*** Jump
*** Kick 
*** Pedal
*** Run
*** Step
**** Heel-strike 
**** Toe-off
*** Trot
*** Walk
* Operate
* Communicate
** Communicate-vocally
*** Cry
*** Groan
*** Gulp  <nowiki>[Communicate anxiety. Use swallow if non-editorial.]</nowiki>
***	Laugh
*** Scream
*** Sigh
*** Speak <nowiki>[Communicate using spoken language.]</nowiki>
** Gesture <nowiki>[Make a expressive communicative movement of hands/arms and, often, face]</nowiki>
***	Index-up
***	Pump-fist
***	Spread-hand
***	Shhh
***	Shrug
***	Thumb-up
***	Wave
** Communicate-musically
*** Hum
*** Sing
*** Vocalize <nowiki>[Make a sustained vowel sound such as, Ahhh]</nowiki>
*** Whistle
* Rest 
* Think
** Allow <nowiki>[Allow access to something such as allowing a car to pass]</nowiki> 
** Attend
** Count 
** Deny <nowiki> [Deny access to something such as preventing someone to pass]</nowiki> 
** Detect
** Discriminate
** Encode 
** Evade 
** Generate
** Imagine
** Name 
** Read 
** Recall
** Repeat
** Switch-attention
** Track

'''Attribute''' 
* Informational <nowiki>{extensionAllowed}</nowiki>
** Label <nowiki>{requireChild} [A string of 20 or fewer characters. Labels are used to define scopes or can be assigned to several events sharing the same characteristic (an event code).]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki> 
** ID <nowiki>{requireChild, isNumeric} [An alphanumeric code usually used to identify particular objects.]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki>
** Description <nowiki>{requireChild}[Human-readable text description of the event.]</nowiki> 
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki> 
** Metadata <nowiki>[A tag used within a tag group indicate to designate information about the data such as file size or author.]</nowiki>
*** Creation-date <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki> 
**** <nowiki># {takesValue, unitClass=datetime}</nowiki> 
*** Subject <nowiki>{requireChild} </nowiki>
**** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki>
** Feature <nowiki>{requireChild} [As a Name:Value]</nowiki> 
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki> 
** Parameter <nowiki>{requireChild} [As a Name:Value]</nowiki> 
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki> 
* Organizational
** Block <nowiki>[An event used to indicate a particular organizational part in the experimental design or plan. Usually the Block tag is used with scoping tags as well as tags describing what the block represents to assist with downstream analysis.]</nowiki>
** Collection
** Context <nowiki>[A tag indicating the overall environment and setup of the experiment or a portion of the experiment. This event is often inserted into a recording at the beginning of an experimental record to describe information such as whether the experiment is conducted indoors or outdoors or whether the experiment is conducted in the real-world or in a controlled laboratory setting. Tags specifying subject metadata might also be included. ]</nowiki>
** Condition <nowiki>[An event used to indicate a shift to a new experimental or task condition, usually as the result of the change of a control variable or the participant state.]</nowiki>
** Definition <nowiki>[A tag used within a tag group also containing a Label tag to indicate that the Label represents that group of tags.]</nowiki> 
** Permutation <nowiki>[A tag used within a tag group also containing a Label tag to indicate that the Label represents events that are permutations of each other.]</nowiki> 
** Sequence <nowiki>[A tag used within a tag group also containing a Label tag to indicate that the Label represents events related in a sequential order.]</nowiki>
** Task <nowiki>[A tag used to indicate a linkage to the task.]</nowiki> 
** Trial <nowiki>[A tag used to indicate a particular organizational part in the experimental design often containing a stimulus-response pair.]</nowiki>
* Relational <nowiki>{extensionAllowed}</nowiki>
** Comparative-relation
*** Less-than
*** Less-than-or-equal-to
*** Greater-than
*** Greater-than-or-equal-to
*** Equal-to
*** Not-equal-to
** Connective-relation
*** Belongs-to   [As in owned by]
*** Connected-to
*** Contained-in
*** Described-by
*** From-to
*** Group-of
*** Implied-by
*** Interacts-with
*** Member-of
*** Part-of
*** Performed-by
*** Related-to
** Positional-relation <nowiki>[Should be grouped with what it is positionally related to.]</nowiki>
*** Above
*** Adjacent-to
*** Ahead-of
*** Around
*** Behind
*** Below
*** Close-to
*** Distance-from
*** Far-from
*** Inside-of
*** Left-of
*** On-top-of
*** Outside-of
*** Over
*** Right-of
*** Under
** Directional-relation
*** Away-from
*** Closing
*** Decreasing
*** Downhill
*** Increasing
*** Opening
*** Towards
*** Uphill
** Temporal-relation
*** After
*** Before
*** During
** Spatiotemporal-relation
*** Constant
*** Continuous
*** Deterministic
*** Discrete
*** Flickering <nowiki>[Irregular changes in time]</nowiki>
*** Repetitive
*** Stochastic
* Quantitative <nowiki>{extensionAllowed}</nowiki>
** Fraction <nowiki>{requireChild}[Fraction of items of a particular type.]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki>  
** Item-count <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki>
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki>  
** Percentage <nowiki>{requireChild}[Percentage of items of a particular type.]</nowiki> 
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki>  
** Probability <nowiki> [Use to specify the level of certainty about the occurrence of the event.]</nowiki> 
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki>  
** Ratio <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki> 
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki>  
** Repetition <nowiki>{requireChild} [When the same type of event such as a fixation on the exact same object happens multiple times and it might be necessary to distinguish the first look vs. others]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki>   
** Uncertainty <nowiki> {requireChild} [Use to specify the amount of uncertainty in the timing of the event or other item such as a data features. Please notice that this is different from Attribute/Probability tag which relates to the occurrence of event and can be interpretative as the integral of probability density across a distribution whose shape (temporal extent) is specified by Attribute/Temporal uncertainty]. </nowiki> 
*** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki>  
* Categorical <nowiki>{extensionAllowed}</nowiki>
** Congruent
** Correct
** Deep
** False
** High
** Incongruent
** Incorrect
** Invalid
** Liminal
** Low
** Medium
** Normal
** Negative
** Positive
** Shallow
** Subliminal
** Supraliminal
** True
** Valid
* Descriptive <nowiki>[Indicate the type of thing.]</nowiki>
** Abstract
** Biological
** Clinical
** Complex
** Composite
** Electrical
** Fractal
** Involuntary
** Mechanical
** Magnetic
** Numerical
** Random
** Symbolic
* Sensory <nowiki>{extensionAllowed}</nowiki>
** Auditory
*** Audible
*** Frequency <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki>
**** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=frequency}</nowiki>  
*** Loudness <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki>
**** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric}</nowiki>
*** Monophonic <nowiki> [Consisting of one independent audio channel</nowiki>  
*** Ramp-up <nowiki>[Increasing in amplitude]</nowiki> 
*** Ramp-down <nowiki>[Decreasing in amplitude]</nowiki>
*** Silent
*** Stereophonic <nowiki> [Consisting of more than one independent audio channel</nowiki> 
*** Timbre <nowiki>[Sound quality]</nowiki>  
** Gustatory
** Tactile
** Olfactory
** Vestibular
** Visual
*** Luminance <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki> 
*** Color <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki>
**** Color-shade 
***** Dark-shade
***** Light-shade 
**** HSV-color
***** Hue 
****** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric} [Angular value between 0 and 360]</nowiki> 
***** Saturation 
****** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric} [B value of RGB between 0 and 1]</nowiki> 
***** HSV-value 
****** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric} [G value of RGB between 0 and 1]</nowiki> 
**** RGB-color
***** RGB-red 
****** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric} [R value of RGB between 0 and 1]</nowiki> 
***** RGB-blue 
****** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric} [B value of RGB between 0 and 1]</nowiki> 
***** RGB-green 
****** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric} [G value of RGB between 0 and 1]</nowiki> 
**** Grayscale <nowiki>[Indicates gray scale]</nowiki> 
***** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric} [White intensity between 0 and 1]</nowiki>
**** CSS-color <nowiki>[One of 140 colors supported by all browsers. For more details such as the color RGB or HEX values,  check:  https://www.w3schools.com/colors/colors_groups.asp]</nowiki> 
***** Blue-color
****** CadetBlue
****** SteelBlue
****** LightSteelBlue
****** LightBlue
****** PowderBlue
****** LightSkyBlue
****** SkyBlue
****** CornflowerBlue
****** DeepSkyBlue
****** DodgerBlue
****** RoyalBlue
****** Blue
****** MediumBlue
****** DarkBlue
****** Navy
****** MidnightBlue
***** Brown-color
****** Cornsilk 
****** BlanchedAlmond 
****** Bisque 
****** NavajoWhite 
****** Wheat 
****** BurlyWood 
****** Tan 
****** RosyBrown 
****** SandyBrown 
****** GoldenRod 
****** DarkGoldenRod 
****** Peru 
****** Chocolate 
****** Olive 
****** SaddleBrown 
****** Sienna 
****** Brown 
****** Maroon 
***** Cyan-color
****** Aqua
****** Cyan
****** LightCyan
****** PaleTurquoise
****** Aquamarine
****** Turquoise
****** MediumTurquoise
****** DarkTurquoise
***** Green-color
****** GreenYellow
****** Chartreuse
****** LawnGreen
****** Lime
****** LimeGreen
****** PaleGreen
****** LightGreen
****** MediumSpringGreen
****** SpringGreen
****** MediumSeaGreen
****** SeaGreen
****** ForestGreen
****** Green
****** DarkGreen
****** YellowGreen
****** OliveDrab
****** DarkOliveGreen
****** MediumAquaMarine
****** DarkSeaGreen
****** LightSeaGreen
****** DarkCyan
****** Teal
***** Gray-color
****** Gainsboro
****** LightGray
****** Silver
****** DarkGray
****** DimGray
****** Gray
****** LightSlateGray
****** SlateGray
****** DarkSlateGray
****** Black
***** Orange-color
****** Orange
****** DarkOrange
****** Coral
****** Tomato
****** OrangeRed
***** Pink-color
****** Pink
****** LightPink
****** HotPink
****** DeepPink
****** PaleVioletRed
****** MediumVioletRed
***** Purple-color
****** Lavender
****** Thistle
****** Plum
****** Orchid
****** Violet
****** Fuchsia
****** Magenta
****** MediumOrchid
****** DarkOrchid
****** DarkViolet
****** BlueViolet
****** DarkMagenta
****** Purple
****** MediumPurple
****** MediumSlateBlue
****** SlateBlue
****** DarkSlateBlue
****** RebeccaPurple
****** Indigo
***** Red-color
****** LightSalmon
****** Salmon
****** DarkSalmon
****** LightCoral
****** IndianRed
****** Crimson
****** Red
****** FireBrick
****** DarkRed
***** Yellow-color
****** Gold
****** Yellow
****** LightYellow
****** LemonChiffon
****** LightGoldenRodYellow
****** PapayaWhip
****** Moccasin
****** PeachPuff
****** PaleGoldenRod
****** Khaki
****** DarkKhaki
***** White-color
****** White
****** Snow
****** HoneyDew
****** MintCream
****** Azure
****** AliceBlue
****** GhostWhite
****** WhiteSmoke
****** SeaShell
****** Beige
****** OldLace
****** FloralWhite
****** Ivory
****** AntiqueWhite
****** Linen
****** LavenderBlush
****** MistyRose
* Presentation
** Window
*** 2D-view
*** 3D-view 
* Spatiotemporal <nowiki>{extensionAllowed}</nowiki>
** Spatial
*** Bearing <nowiki>{requireChild} [Coordinate system is inferred from Attribute/Location. To specify a vector combine subnodes with number --- for example Attribute/Top/10, Attribute/Direction/Left/5 to create a vector with coordinates 10 and 5]</nowiki>
*** Orientation  
*** Location {requireChild} <nowiki>[Spot or center of an area. Use Area were you are referring to something with significant extent and emphasizing its boundaries, like a city]</nowiki> 
*** Distance <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki> 
***** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=physicalLength}</nowiki> 
*** Resolution
***** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki> 
*** Size <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki> 
**** Area <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki> 
***** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=area}</nowiki> 
**** Length <nowiki>{requireChild} [A measurement of the size along the longest dimension.]</nowiki> 
***** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=physicalLength}</nowiki> 
**** Width <nowiki>[A measurement along the shortest of two or three dimensions.]</nowiki>
***** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=physicalLength}</nowiki>
**** Height <nowiki>[A measurement in a direction perpendicular to Length and Width in 3D. In 2D, it is perpendicular to the Length.]</nowiki>
***** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=physicalLength}</nowiki> 
**** Volume <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki> 
***** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=volume}</nowiki> 
** Temporal
*** Asynchronous
*** Duration <nowiki>{requireChild} [An offset that is implicit after duration time passed from the onset]</nowiki>
**** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=time}</nowiki> 
*** Onset
*** Offset
*** Response-start-delay <nowiki>{requireChild} [How long the start of the response is delayed from the stimulus onset.]</nowiki>
**** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=time}</nowiki> 
*** Response-end-delay <nowiki>{requireChild} [How long the end of the response is delayed from the stimulus onset.]</nowiki>
**** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=time}</nowiki> 
*** Synchronous
*** Temporal-value
**** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=time}</nowiki> 
*** Time-out
** Acceleration
*** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=acceleration}</nowiki>  
** Direction-change
** Jerk-rate <nowiki>[Rate at which an object's acceleration changes with respect to time.]</nowiki> 
*** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=jerk}</nowiki> 
** Rate <nowiki>[Number of occurrences in a unit of time.]</nowiki>
*** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric}</nowiki> 
** Velocity
*** <nowiki># {takesValue, isNumeric, unitClass=speed}</nowiki>  
* Environmental <nowiki>{extensionAllowed}</nowiki>
** Indoors
** Outdoors
** Real-world
** Virtual-world
** Augmented-reality
** Motion-platform
** Urban
** Rural
** Terrain
*** Composite-terrain
*** Dirt-terrain
*** Grassy-terrain
*** Gravel-terrain
*** Leaf-covered-terrain
*** Muddy-terrain
*** Paved-terrain
*** Rocky-terrain
*** Sloped-terrain
*** Smooth-terrain
*** Uneven-terrain
*** Wooden-walkway
* Agent-related
** Cognitive-state<nowiki>{extensionAllowed, requireChild}</nowiki>
*** Alert
*** Anesthetized 
*** Asleep
*** Attentive
*** Awake 
*** Brain-dead 
*** Comatose 
*** Drowsy 
*** Intoxicated <nowiki>[Indicates a state in which participant has consumed alcohol or drugs or other substances that may alter physical or mental state.]</nowiki> 
*** Locked-in 
*** Passive <nowiki>[Observing but not allowed to make any behavioral outputs. The resting state is not considered passive.</nowiki>
*** Resting
*** Vegetative 
** Emotional-state<nowiki>{extensionAllowed, requireChild}</nowiki>
*** Angry 
*** Aroused
*** Awed
*** Compassionate
*** Content
*** Disgusted 
*** Emotionally-neutral
*** Empathetic
*** Excited 
*** Fearful
*** Feeling-stress
*** Frustrated
*** Grieving
*** Happy
*** Jealous 
*** Joyful 
*** Loving
*** Relieved
*** Sad 
** Postural-state<nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki> 
*** Crouching
*** Kneeling
*** On-treadmill
*** Prone
*** Sitting
*** Standing
*** Supported-by-chin-rest
** Trait <nowiki>{extensionAllowed, requireChild}</nowiki> 
*** Age
**** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki>
*** Sex
**** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki> 
*** Handedness
**** <nowiki># {takesValue}</nowiki> 
** Attentional
** Emotional 
** Reflexive
** Intentional
** Arousal <nowiki>[Only in the context of 2D emotion representation]</nowiki> 
** Social-role <nowiki> {requireChild} [The role of the agent not particular to the task.]</nowiki>
*** Brother
*** Child
*** Father
*** Mother
*** Sister
** Task-role <nowiki> {requireChild} [The role of the agent in the task.]</nowiki>  
*** Experimental-subject
*** Experimenter
*** Follower
*** Friend
*** Leader
*** Stranger
*** Student
*** Teacher
** Association <nowiki>{requireChild}</nowiki>
*** Associated-with-non-agent 
*** Associated-with-other <nowiki>[Item such as a cup belonging to another person]</nowiki> 
*** Associated-with-self <nowiki>[Item such as a cup belonging to the participant]</nowiki> 
* Task-related
** Action-judgment <nowiki>[External judgment assumed to be ground truth such as from an experiment control software or an annotator about participant actions such as answering a question, failing to answer in time, etc. Related to participant indication]</nowiki> 
** Appropriate
** Background
** Cue
** Distractor 
** Erroroneous
** Expected <nowiki>[Of low information value, for example frequent Non-targets in an RSVP paradigm]</nowiki>
** Extraneous
** Feedback 
** Failure
** Imagined <nowiki>[This is used to identity that the (sub)event only happened in the imagination of the participant, e.g.  imagined movements in motor imagery paradigms.]</nowiki>
** Inappropriate
** Indeterminate
** Instructional 
** Intended-effect <nowiki> [How the stimulus is expected to effect the participants]</nowiki> 
** Masked
** Missed
** Meaningful
** Newly-learned-meaning 
** Non-informative
** Non-target <nowiki>[Make sure to tag Expected if the Non-target is frequent] </nowiki> 
** Not-meaningful 
** Novel <nowiki>[Genuinely novel such as an event occurring once or so per experiment]</nowiki> 
** Oddball <nowiki> [Unexpected or infrequent]</nowiki>
** Planned
** Penalizing
** Priming
** Rewarding 
** Success
** Target <nowiki>[Something the subject is looking for]</nowiki> 
** Threatening
** Unmasked
** Warning <nowiki>[As in a warning message that you are getting too close to the shoulder in a driving task]</nowiki> 


'''Unit classes''' 
* time <nowiki>{defaultUnits=s}</nowiki> 
** second <nowiki>{SIUnit}</nowiki> 
** s <nowiki>{SIUnit, unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
** day 
** minute 
** hour <nowiki>[Should be in 24-hour format.]</nowiki>
* dateTime <nowiki>{defaultUnits=YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss}</nowiki> 
** YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss <nowiki>[Date-times should conform to ISO8601 date-time format.]</nowiki> 
* clockTime <nowiki>{defaultUnits=hour:min}</nowiki> 
** hour:min <nowiki>[Hours should be in 24 hour format. Two-digit values should be used for each item.]</nowiki> 
** hour:min:sec <nowiki>[Hours should be in 24 hour format. Two-digit values should be used for each item.]</nowiki> 
* frequency <nowiki>{defaultUnits=Hz}</nowiki>
** hertz  <nowiki>{SIUnit}</nowiki>
** Hz <nowiki>{SIUnit, unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
* angle <nowiki>{defaultUnits=radian}</nowiki> 
** radian <nowiki>{SIUnit}</nowiki> 
** rad <nowiki>{SIUnit, unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
** degree 
* physicalLength <nowiki>{defaultUnits=m}</nowiki> 
** metre <nowiki>{SIUnit}</nowiki> 
** m <nowiki>{SIUnit, unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
** foot 
** mile  
* pixels <nowiki>{defaultUnits=px}</nowiki>  
** pixel 
** px <nowiki>{unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
* area <nowiki>{defaultUnits=m^2}</nowiki> 
** m^2 <nowiki>{SIUnit, unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
** px^2 <nowiki>{unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
** pixel^2
* volume <nowiki>{defaultUnits=m^3}</nowiki> 
** m^3 <nowiki>{SIUnit, unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
* speed <nowiki>{defaultUnits=m-per-s}</nowiki> 
** m-per-s <nowiki>{SIUnit, unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
** mph <nowiki>{unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
** kph <nowiki>{unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
* acceleration <nowiki>{defaultUnits=m-per-s^2}</nowiki> 
** m-per-s^2 <nowiki>{SIUnit, unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
* jerk <nowiki>{defaultUnits=m-per-s^3}</nowiki> 
** m-per-s^3 <nowiki>{unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
* intensity <nowiki>{defaultUnits=dB}</nowiki> 
** dB <nowiki>{unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
* luminousIntensity <nowiki>{defaultUnits=cd}</nowiki> 
** candela <nowiki>{SIUnit}</nowiki> 
** cd <nowiki>{SIUnit, unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
* memorySize <nowiki>{defaultUnits=B}</nowiki> 
** byte <nowiki>{SIUnit}</nowiki>
** B <nowiki>{SIUnit, unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
* currency <nowiki>{defaultUnits=$}</nowiki> 
** dollar 
** $ <nowiki>{unitSymbol}</nowiki> 
** point 
** fraction 

'''Unit modifiers''' 
* deca <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^1]</nowiki> 
* da <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^1]</nowiki>
* hecto <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^2]</nowiki> 
* h <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^2]</nowiki>
* kilo <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^3]</nowiki> 
* k <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^3]</nowiki>
* mega <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^6]</nowiki> 
* M <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^6]</nowiki>
* giga <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^9]</nowiki> 
* G <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^9]</nowiki>
* tera <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^12]</nowiki> 
* T <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^12]</nowiki>
* peta <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^15]</nowiki> 
* P <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^15]</nowiki> 
* exa <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^18]</nowiki> 
* E <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^18]</nowiki>
* zetta <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^21]</nowiki> 
* Z <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^21]</nowiki>
* yotta <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^24]</nowiki> 
* Y <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit multiple representing 10^24]</nowiki>   
* deci <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-1]</nowiki> 
* d <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-1]</nowiki> 
* centi <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-2]</nowiki> 
* c <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-2]</nowiki>
* milli <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-3]</nowiki> 
* m <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-3]</nowiki>
* micro <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-6]</nowiki> 
* u <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-6]</nowiki>
* nano <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-9]</nowiki> 
* n <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-9]</nowiki> 
* pico <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-12]</nowiki> 
* p <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-12]</nowiki>
* femto <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-15]</nowiki> 
* f <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-15]</nowiki>
* atto <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-18]</nowiki> 
* a <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-18]</nowiki>
* zepto <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-21]</nowiki> 
* z <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-21]</nowiki>
* yocto <nowiki>{SIUnitModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-24]</nowiki> 
* y <nowiki>{SIUnitSymbolModifier} [SI unit submultiple representing 10^-24]</nowiki>  
!# end hed 

'''Attribute Definitions:'''
* defaultUnits <nowiki>[Default units for a tag.]</nowiki> 
* extensionAllowed <nowiki>[Users can add unlimited levels of child nodes under this tag.]</nowiki> 
* isNumeric <nowiki>[The tag "#" must be replaced by a numerical value.]</nowiki> 
* position <nowiki>[Used to specify the order of the required and recommended tags in canonical order for display. The position attribute value should be an integer and the order can start at 0 or 1. Required or recommended tags without this attribute or with negative position will be shown after the others in canonical ordering.]</nowiki> 
* predicateType <nowiki> [One of propertyOf, subclassOf, passThrough -- used to facilitate mapping to OWL or RDF.]</nowiki>  
* recommended  <nowiki>[A HED string tagging an event is recommended to include this tag.]</nowiki> 
* requireChild  <nowiki>[One of its descendants must be chosen to tag an event.]</nowiki> 
*  required <nowiki>[Every HED string tagging an event should include this tag.]</nowiki>
* SIUnit  <nowiki>[Designates the name of an SI unit so it can be modified by multiple and submultiple names. Note that some units such as byte are designated as SI units although they are not part of the standard.]</nowiki>
* SIUnitModifier <nowiki>[SI unit modifier indicating a multiple or submultiple of a base unit.]</nowiki> 
* SIUnitSymbolModifier <nowiki>[SI unit symbol modifier indicating a multiple or submultiple of a base unit symbol.]</nowiki> 
* takesValue <nowiki>[This tag will have a "#" placeholder child in the schema which is expected to be replaced with a user-defined value.] </nowiki> 
* unique <nowiki>[Only one of this tag or its descendants can be used within a single tag group or event.]</nowiki> 
* unitSymbol <nowiki>[Abbreviation or symbol representing a type of unit. Unit symbols  represent both the singular and the plural and thus cannot be pluralized.]</nowiki> 
